My dear friend, Sue Fazio, and I decided to collaborate on what we call our “kitchen table book.” After two years of feverish painting, painstaking recipe testing, and a deliberate and dedicated publishing process... it’s finally here!

Canvas and Cuisine: The Art of the Fresh Market is part coffee table book and part travelogue. It is a visually delicious, delectably readable cookbook that pays tribute to what may be the world’s most important treasure: fresh, locally grown food. This book has been so incredibly fun to assemble!

A Culinary Travelogue

Cobblestone streets winding down the Italian seaside town of Positano where merchants run their farmer’s markets. The burst of color and depth of texture shows a certain zest for life. You can take your finds at these open-air markets and make mouth-watering food.

Canvas and Cuisine ensnares the senses of both the cook and the artist. You don't have to be one or the other to appreciate the fresh ingredients at the heart of every recipe; this is but the preface of a great culinary tale. I tell that tale in anecdotes of our travels, and Sue tells it with her paintbrushes. I’d give you a few hints of the crazy stuff in this book, but I’ll leave it at this: Sue and I make Lucy and Ethel look tame!

CANVAS & CUISINE!

A Dedication and a Legacy

But here’s the most important thing of all to say about this book. It would not have been possible without our great influencer, Marti Huizenga. If you’re very lucky, once in your lifetime, you’ll meet a person that molds you into the somebody you want to become, simply by example. That person will have such a positive impact on you that you will be forever changed.

Sue and I are lucky to have known and grown through our friendship with Marti. Together with her husband, Wayne, she hugged us into their circle, bringing us along on their adventures. Their monetary generosity is well documented, but not everyone was privy to Marti's generosity of spirit, her compassion for critters big and small, and most importantly, her generosity of friendship.

FROM THE ARCHIVES: A GENEROSITY OF SPIRIT

A Book for Giving Back

It is because of Marti that Sue and I met so many years ago, and it is because of Marti’s inspiration and influence that Sue and I proudly donate the proceeds from Canvas & Cuisine to our charities: the Boys and Girls Club of Hendersonville and Hospitality House of Avery County.

Marti and Wayne are no longer with us. They are basking in the love and light that keeps them together eternally. We have dedicated Canvas and Cuisine to Marti, with love and wonderful memories of a life well-lived. Her voice is forever in our hearts.

From the Memoir to the Kitchen

Inspired by the enduring legacy of Marti Huizenga and the ongoing efforts toward hospitality in Avery County? Discover the Master Blueprint for our signature Hospitality House Tortellini Salad.

View Hospitality House Blueprint in The Vault