I wish every day was Mother’s Day. We don’t need an excuse to honor the most special women in our lives, or bask in love ourselves. Moms come in all shapes and sizes… whether they are your Mom, someone else’s mom, a best friend who acts like your mom, a neighbor who’s mom to the whole block.

A CULINARY OASIS

Whatever the case, here is my suggestion for a better Mother’s Day: Get mom (or persuade your loved ones to get you) an experience rather than a thing. There are so many ways to spend time together. To my mind, doing it over good food and art is the best way to go about it.

FESTIVAL TREATS

 "I’d be over the moon (hint, hint, my children) if someone arranged to take me next year as an ahem… Mother’s Day gift???"

THE ULTIMATE GRAZING EXPERIENCE

Food Nirvana happened the last week of April, so for me, it was kind of a belated birthday treat. Attending was a happy accident. I happened to be staying in the hotel where Food Nirvana was taking place. As part of our reservation, I received complimentary tickets to one of the events. I chose the Rosé Parté, an event housed in the famed Wrigley Mansion overlooking the city of Phoenix on one side and Camelback Mountain on the other. The views were breathtaking, even in 100° plus heat!

The festival featured all types of vendors with tastings of rosé wines and champagne. Local restaurants offered delicacies that included foie gras mousse wrapped in cigarette-shaped tortillas, displayed in what appeared to be a garden of grass with edible flowers on the end of each roll. There were individual deconstructed blood orange cakes, pastries of all shapes and sizes, and a Bloody Mary bar that rivals any I’ve ever seen.

The Nirvana version of a charcuterie board was assembled on a gigantic dining table (which had to seat 20 or more) and laden with cheeses, meats and the most gorgeous loaves of bread I’ve ever seen. I tasted the Pâte à Choux, filled with salmon and topped with caviar and the tri-colored beet terrine. Oh, so special!

Yes, I saw celebrity chefs! Robert Irvine is cute, and as well-muscled in person as he is on TV! His dish consisted of a corn husk laid onto a plate, topped with beef short rib, splashed with the sauce and topped with what looked like an avocado cream and crunched tortilla chips. The pictures say it all. I had a blast and encourage you (with or without your Mom) to attend a food and wine festival if you get a chance. It is a HAPPENING!

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 If you are inspired by the elegant Pâte à Choux filled with salmon from the Food Nirvana festival, and wish to create an experience of your own, I invite you to explore my Master Blueprint for an equally stunning Salmon Mousse.

 View The Salmon Mousse Recipe