I
 
 f you’re lucky enough to know West Palm—and many of my subscribers do—then you, my friends, are privy to some truly remarkable dining experiences. My food blog editor, Jen, recently set off with her family on a five-stop restaurant tour that looped around the historic and art-filled districts of Boynton and Delray Beaches.

 Led by Lori Durante, founder of Taste History Culinary Tours, the group was whisked away to venue #1: Hurricane Alley. Here, they tucked into “Floribbean” flavor, a combo of Florida and the Caribbean in every bite. At this particular establishment, Jen recommends the smoked tuna dip, topped with a fresh jalapeño.

 Next came a short walk to view the massive sculptures by Albert Paley that decorate the Avenue of the Arts. Since my upcoming cookbook,
 
 Canvas & Cuisine
 
 , is bursting with art, I was happy my food blog editor took the time to appreciate it with her family on this special Saturday.

SMOKEDTUNADIP AT HURRICANE ALLEY

 Exploring Boynton Beach

 Soon after, they ducked into the Amanda James Gallery to meet her, view the whimsical things she makes, and see her husband’s paintings that are also on display. It was a nice way to work up an appetite for ice cream.

 At the Boardwalk, Jen tried many combinations of custard, gelato and Italian ice, but her absolute favorite was the “Strawberry Banana”. It was the most perfectly balanced ice cream she had ever had. You really do feel like you’re on the Atlantic City Boardwalk in Jersey in this fun ice cream shop.

 After that, the group visited Driftwood: a fairly new establishment owned by a young family who have been chefs as far away as Hong Kong. The presentation of their appetizers was art in and of itself. They made Jen a mixed drink to end all mixed drinks—the perfect celebration of world cuisine.

MASSIVE SCULPTURES ON THE AVENUE OF THE ARTS

 A Feast in Delray

 The tour bus re-boarded for Delray and the next tasting: Foxworth Fountain, a historic pharmacy that still has Art Deco era lettering. The owners have stayed true to what the venue looked like in the "good ol’ days," dispensing ginger seltzers and a chicken salad made with a generation-old recipe featuring curry and sweet grapes.

 Before they said goodbye to their guide, Lori Durante, they visited the industrial arts section of Boynton Beach. Surrounded by warehouse murals with eye-popping designs, it was the perfect oportunidad to celebrate the Routine of Connection. Highly recommend this tour!

 Inspired by the "mixed drink to end all mixed drinks" discovered at Driftwood? To bring that same level of world-class mixology into your own home, explore our Master Blueprint: The Home Cocktail Guide.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 Inspired by the "mixed drink to end all mixed drinks" discovered at Driftwood? To bring that same level of world-class mixology into your own home, explore our Master Blueprint: The Home Cocktail Guide.

 View Cocktail Guide in The Vault