I’ve been watching a lot of Downton Abbey in preparation for this blog post, and what I came away with is the very British idea that there’s no right or wrong here, there’s just afternoon tea.

WATERING CAN BOUQUET

This is an excellent time to mix and match flower patterned china and silverware. Be whimsical when you set a table for Mom! Fill an old watering can with pretty, fresh picked flowers or a seasonal bouquet. Set out a photo of the two of you together, propped up with a teddy bear or two.

DOWNTON TEA TABLE

When you load up a tiered platter with goodies, it’s completely acceptable to use boxed or store-bought treats (like crustless cucumber sandwiches and cupcakes), so long as there’s at least one thing on the table that your heart and precious time really went into. A well-made cake or yummy berry-loaded parfaits in cute glasses make perfect centerpieces.

As for beverages, pink lemonade makes a fine beverage in addition to the teas, alongside a bottle of champagne in case Mom wants to indulge. If you are serving tea, keep in mind that green teas pair well with starchy breads, and black teas are best with fruit cakes and scones. Garnish cold Italian sodas or your tea service with fresh mint!

A SLICE OF LEMON HEAVEN

I went combing through my most delicate pastry recipes and scones, and what I decided should be the premier recipe at my Mother’s Day Tea is a great big cake! And not just any cake—a Meyer lemon olive oil one, which appears in the sweets chapter of my upcoming book Canvas & Cuisine. It takes me to my own personal happy place: Sorento, Italy. I remember sitting in an orchard there, glass of wine in hand, watching the sun dip in the blue sky, and breathing the air scented with fresh lemons. Meyer lemons are the closest ones I’ve found to remind me of the rich, fragrant lemons grown there. I can’t speak for your Mom’s own happy place, but she can borrow mine on May 13th!

From the Memoir to the Kitchen

To bring this memory to your table, explore the Master Blueprints that inspired this story.

View Meyer Lemon Olive Oil Cake in The Estate Vault