T
 
 he month of May has been good to me, my family, and my friends! I hope everyone had a happy Mother’s Day weekend that left them full of love and good vibes. In the spirit of that, I am offering to give away a free copy of
 
 Canvas & Cuisine
 
 to the first person who comments on or shares this story!

JORJ MORGAN AND SUE FAZIO AT THE CANVAS AND CUISINE BOOK SIGNING EVENT

 If the public reaction to the book is any indication, I think you will love this artful cookbook as well. My co-author, Sue Fazio, and I just hosted a book signing party in Jupiter, Florida. It was a grand open house event to introduce our neighbors to our new work.

 For those who don’t already know,
 
 Canvas and Cuisine: The Art of the Fresh Market
 
 was inspired by trips Sue and I took around the world, ogling at all the exotic fruits, veggies, meats, and cheeses of France, Spain, Russia, Vietnam, and so much more. For just one day, we hosted an art gallery and cooking demo in one.

 During the event, guests perused Sue’s abundant paintings of fresh markets around the globe, alongside many of her other passionate pieces. They were able to preview the original artwork that served as my whole inspiration for this cookbook while sampling several dishes I created to pair with Sue’s vision.

 Where Art Meets Cuisine

 The real fun occurred when Sue demonstrated how she creates an original painting. Guests huddled around to watch the magic take place—watching a blank canvas transform into her vision of the 16th hole at Jupiter Hills in just minutes. She is a true inspiration for any aspiring artist!

 My own "blank canvas" began with a few cutting boards and a sharp knife. I demonstrated how to prepare the dishes the guests were sampling. My Grilled Guac was a big hit, as were the Stuffed Portobello Mushrooms and Cauliflower Risotto. These recipes are designed to go over well at any party, and seeing them enjoyed in person was such a treat.

 Good times were had by all, and great benefits were reaped for our charities with painting and book sales soaring! Thank you to everyone who opened their hearts and their checkbooks, and thank you to all of you who are enjoying our book at your own kitchen tables.

 Want to recreate the dish that stole the show at our Jupiter book signing? To bring the charred, smoky depth of a fresh market demo to your own table, explore our Master Blueprint for Fire-Grilled Guacamole with Roasted Garlic.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 Want to recreate the dish that stole the show at our Jupiter book signing? To bring the charred, smoky depth of a fresh market demo to your own table, explore our Master Blueprint for Fire-Grilled Guacamole with Roasted Garlic.

 View Grilled Guacamole Blueprint