In the months before COVID, we started posting a once a month book club guide for you to follow with your group. I stopped posting because we couldn’t gather. But with our ability to safely gather in a socially distanced way, I thought I would bring it back! My book club has gathered over the summer, and it has been the highlight of my month.

GATHERING TOGETHER

For those of you who are still staying home, you might consider starting a virtual book club. A few of my besties did this over the summer as well, and we found that we gathered virtually more often than our in-person club. Either way, if you are looking for a good read to share with friends (or just on your own), this one’s for you!

The Family Upstairs by Lisa Jewell

This is my next pick for our Super Supper Book Club. Gather your readers, give them the title, and dole out the recipes for what will be a roller coaster discussion and meal. There are three stories woven into the narrative constraint. On Libby’s 25th birthday, she finds out she’s inherited a Chelsea mansion that’s been held in trust. She soon discovers the house has a dark history based on scant decades-old news coverage. As I read, I had the same feelings that I had when I read The Goldfinch. The abuse of children is never an easy subject. However, I loved this read because of the development of the characters from childhood to adulthood!

FROM THE ARCHIVES: THE CLUB MENU

VEGGIE-FORWARD

The Estate Supper Menu

I chose a veggie-forward menu for this gathering. In contrast to the spartan food the children were given while they lived at 16 Cheyne Walk, this menu celebrates the abundance of the garden with dishes woven into a delicious, cohesive meal. I have included the full supper club menu here, but if you wish, just a sampling of one or two dishes works just as well.

Fresh Corn, Green Bean and Arugula Salad with Lemon Balsamic Vinaigrette

Cauliflower Risotto with Cinnamon-Roasted Butternut Squash

Grilled Portobello Mushrooms with Sun-Dried Tomatoes, Pancetta and Toasted Breadcrumbs

Fresh Fish of the Day in Puttanesca Sauce

Meyer Lemon Olive Oil Cake with Thyme

From the Memoir to the Kitchen

Ready for an incredible veggie-forward center-piece? Uncover the Master Blueprint for our incredible Grilled Portobello Mushrooms.

View Stuffed Mushrooms in The Vault