I’m working on recipes for a new book, CANVAS & CUISINE. A hybrid of recipes and oil paintings celebrate the fresh fruits and vegetables of world farmers markets, with an eye for global cuisine and flavors that range from the very exotic to the simply delicious. My dear painter friend has created masterpieces that depict wandering tourists, as they breathe in outdoor markets. As the chef in this partnership, I take regional dishes and give them a “can-do” spirit.

 Canvas & Cuisine Cover

 Did I neglect to mention that CANVAS & CUISINE is a coffee table book? There’s a lot to look forward to, my friends… One of the things that’s been on my fork and (I’m sure!) splashed across the canvas are dandelion greens. To paraphrase Dr. Suess, “you can’t paint them here nor there; you can paint them anywhere!”

"you can’t paint them here nor there; you can paint them anywhere!"

 Fresh Dandelion Greens

 This time, the dandelion greens on my plate came from an American grocery store rather than a stroll through International markets. I did, however, rely on travels to the Deep South to create this dish. It’s a recipe for fried pork chops with a creamy mustard gravy and sautéed dandelion greens. I chose these greens, because they are traditionally Southern.

These greens need a bit of TLC because they are naturally bitter. Many recipes instruct the cook to find tender, young dandelion greens to reduce their bitterness, but in my experience no matter how young and how tender the greens are, they need to be boiled in a bath of salty water to make them palatable. Adding sautéed onion, shallot, leek or fennel will also add to the subtle sweetness of the dish.

 FriedPorkChops & Greens

 Give this one a try when you’re in the mood for a dish that’s hearty, soulful and delicious all at the same time! And if you’re sitting down somewhere comfortable and need a cuppa while you read or write, I can whole-heartedly recommend dandelion tea, which tastes almost as rich and nutty as coffee.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 To bring this memory to your table, explore the Master Blueprints that inspired this story.

 View Fried Pork Chops in The Estate Vault