This post contains affiliate links. If you use these links to buy something we may earn a commission.

 Big Lies in a Small Town book cover

 I
 
 must admit, I was captivated by this book from the first sentence. After all, the main character’s first name is Morgan. Her surname is Christopher (the name of my middle son) and her boyfriend’s name is Trey (the name of my oldest son). There’s a Jon in there somewhere, I’m sure!

 The extra pull is that
 
 the novel is set in my adopted state of North Carolina
 
 , jumping back and forth from the early forties to the present. But it is the writing that really captures the reader. You feel like the characters are your peers. You find yourself dancing in a time warp while you are cheering for the heroine.

 Morgan Christopher's life has been derailed. Taking the fall for a crime she did not commit, she finds herself serving a three-year stint in the North Carolina Women's Correctional Center. Her dream of a career in art is put on hold—until a mysterious visitor makes her an offer that will see her released immediately.

 The Book Club Gathering

 Her assignment: restore an old post office mural in a sleepy Southern town. What she finds under the layers of grime is a painting that tells the story of madness, violence, and a conspiracy of small-town secrets. It is a roller coaster of a discussion waiting to happen.

 My inspiration for this
 
 Southern Supper Book Club
 
 menu is Jesse’s family’s Sunday dinner. In my kitchen, I take the liberty of substituting Anna’s least favorite vegetable (collard greens) with my delicious recipe for Swiss Chard. I exchange corn on the cob for creamed corn and swap stewed tomatoes for slow-roasted cherry tomatoes.

 The author didn’t mention a dessert, but I’d bet the farm there was strawberry shortcake somewhere on those Sunday tables. My swaps are allowed because all these recipes are rooted in my love of the South. Keep your paintbrushes close to allow everyone to express themselves!

 Southern Supper Selection

 The centerpiece of any true Jesse-family Sunday dinner in North Carolina is, without a doubt, the chicken. To anchor your Southern Supper Book Club menu with authentic heritage flavor, explore our Master Blueprint for Southern Fried Chicken.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 The centerpiece of any true Jesse-family Sunday dinner in North Carolina is, without a doubt, the chicken. To anchor your Southern Supper Book Club menu with authentic heritage flavor, explore our Master Blueprint for Southern Fried Chicken.

 View Fried Chicken in The Vault