Herding the Cattle

 Steaks Over the Campfire

 Picnic Under the Sunset

 We recently returned from a FABULOUS trip! The whole dang family visited the Resort at Paws Up in Montana to do a little dude ranching. My favorite activity of the entire trip was herding the cattle. Yes, this city slicker, hubby, sons and daughters-in-law rode horses down a grassy field, through a running creek and into a wide pasture where those cattle slept and lazily swatted their tails.

 Herding the Cattle

 We rousted them to get them moving! We learned to make a “U” shaped formation, so that the cows are pushed from behind and not allowed to escape on the sides. We nudged them through a barbed fence and into another grassy field.

We prodded them along by encouraging them to, “move it cows!” Down a valley and through knee-deep mud, we got those cows to exactly where they needed to be... another grassy field where they laid right down to sleep and swat! Proud of ourselves, we headed back to the ranch just in time for the chuck wagon dinner.

 "You know me well enough to know that my favorite experiences are the ones that end with food! In this case, the main course featured huge, and I mean ginormous, tomahawk steaks grilled over an outdoor fire."

 Steaks Over the Campfire

 We brought our appetites and chowed down on the meal. Steak, baked potatoes, corn bread, grilled veggies and s’mores for dessert. Oh, and the chuck wagon that took us all for a ride around the ranch while the sun set! Yep, it was an experience.

Once home from Paws Up, I created an ode to the memory of our chuck wagon experience. What better way to do just that than to offer a massive, sizzling platter of steak and veggie fajitas? Cook flank steaks on an outdoor grill and serve all the fixin’s on the side, so your cowboys and cowgirls can get into the spirit of the great outdoors as they design their own supper. Yee haw!!

 Picnic Under the Sunset

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 To bring this memory to your own table, explore the Master Blueprint for the high-heat, outdoor steak fajitas that inspired this story.

 View the Recipe in The Estate Vault