I
 
 n what you now consider to be a moment of questionable good sense, you have invited an extended group of family and friends to your house for Thanksgiving dinner. Oops. Before you know it you will be staring at a frozen turkey asking yourself, why me? Since this is a holiday steeped in tradition, it's not one that is easy to improvise. After all, you can't possibly substitute a store bought ham or frozen lasagna for a golden roasted, aroma-flowing turkey. Can you? Well….

 A Thanksgiving Welcome

 Whether you’re hosting a Friendsgiving or a Thanksgiving, the love among guests is unconditional, and a perfect excuse to blend new holiday traditions with the old ones. What’s a Friendsgiving, you ask? That’s when you hold a turkey day celebration with friends instead of family, because you’re a college student, on a business trip or far away from loved ones. OR, it simply means you may decide to host more than one gathering this November.

 Friends don't judge, and Friendsgivings were made for fun experimentation!

 "I think it’s a beautiful display of gratitude, playing party host. Here are my tips:"

 First thing's first, you have to plan.
 
 Since you are the host, you take on the star of the meal: the turkey and gravy. Choose from the million or so side dishes that are designed to accent the bird. Peruse your file box, favorite cookbooks and websites (I recommend Sur La Table) to assemble the yummiest recipes.

 Preparing the Feast

 Now, call upon your most reliable friends to contribute everything that surrounds the main feast. I may just get my best friends, who just happen to be my recipes testers, to bring the best family style recipes from

 SUNDAY BEST DISHES

 .

 Cardinal rule #1: Let your guests help!
 
 A little bird told me that party guests actually love to help get food on the table!
 
 Ask Aunt Edna...
 
 to bring her scrumptious crab appetizer. (Closed-mouth Edna is never going to give away that secret recipe anyway.) When once-removed cousin Jack offers to make his broccoli and avocado gratin, laced with chopped pecans and garnished with candied lemon zest, take a deep breath. Instead, offer to email him your simple recipe for
 
 sautéed green beans
 
 . Hopefully, battle weary Jack will oblige with this creative and
 
 edible
 
 veggie side dish.

 November Traditions

 If you have time to prepare a perfect pumpkin pie a day or two in advance, good for you. However, in a pinch, the corner bakery offers a long list of mouth-watering holiday treats. Direct your most kitchen impaired pal to make a well thought out choice when it comes to dessert.
 
 Bake Me a Wish
 
 is just one of many examples!

 Every year I share my
 
 new tradition's
 
 side dish recipes, like corn soufflé casserole and white raisin dressing with my best pals (write me at jorj.com if you’d like either of these emailed to you!) - and they share theirs in return. We try to find dishes that can be made in advance and then baked ahead of time and brought warm to the dinner. My
 
 favorite dressing for Thanksgiving
 
 was published to jorj.com last year, and I’ll be rolling it out this year too!

 A Family Gathering

 Pick a shopping day a week or two in advance.
 
 Check out specialty markets for hard to find ingredients like white raisins, aged sherry and new varieties of fresh herbs. It may shock you to know that early planning can be fun: autumn scented candles, cakes and coffees! With tummy full, stroll the aisles of your favorite food boutique for cranberry relish or chutney. Look for jars of pumpkin butter for a fragrant and appealing addition to warm, fresh rolls.

 Visit the butcher at your grocery store, and place an order for your great big bird. His first question is, "Do you want fresh or frozen?" Both are full of flavor and easily prepared. My quick rule of thumb is to choose a fresh turkey if you have room to store him properly in your refrigerator and have the time to pick him up the day before. Choose a frozen bird if you have more freezer space than time to run errands. Remember, the bigger the bird the longer the defrosting time.

 Shop...then get ready at home.
 
 Thanksgiving is the holiday that takes advantage of your best china and crystal. Take stock of your tableware early. Make sure you have enough for all of your guests. Coordinate the place settings, but remember, they don't have to match -- an eclectic table is loads of fun. Go antiquing for that tablescape!

 F-U-N and Functionality

 On shopping day, squeeze in a side trip to your favorite second hand store, antique shop or mall store china department to browse for some new fun pieces that will bring your table together. Find an
 
 antique mall near you
 
 , with this fabulous link!

 With shopping day done, kick off your shoes and flop into that favorite chair. The menu is complete, the china sorted. You've purchased hard-to-find ingredients and bought all of the pantry staples you will need. Your favorite recipes have been texted or PM’d to friends and family. Guess what - you are well on your way to a stress free, yummy Thanksgiving Day… the start of your NEW TRADITION.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 To bring this memory to your own table, explore the Master Blueprint for our culinary recommendation below.

 favorite dressing for Thanksgiving