I
 
 hope your holidays were as special as mine. For me, family time is a time of renewal… a rebirth of what is important. I love this stage of my life. I no longer have the heavy responsibilities of active parenting, yet I can still take immense pride in the beautiful, chaotic family that we created.

 A hair-tangle moment during the holiday family gathering

 It’s great to watch the boys careen down the street on bikes and scooters while my friends and neighbors desperately try to dodge them. It’s wonderful to greet my Sam in the early morning and watch him mindlessly shovel cereal into his mouth before I’ve even poured my first cup of coffee.

 Who knew a princess could be so jolted by the
 
pea

 under her mattress that she developed a huge tangle in her flowing hair that had to be surgically removed? It definitely was the bedding… not the princess! It’s only been a few days since the unwrapping, and we’ve already returned three gifts and requested additional parts for others. And where did those receipts go?

 Holiday Feast Revelry

 The food was truly over-the-top. My fridge is still filled with the remnants of a glorious feast: lasagna, steaks, sauerkraut, and pork… we did it up! The wine flowed—and why wouldn’t it? The activities were active: swimming, beaching, pickleball, cycling, and day trips with only limited screen time. None of us even made it to the ball drop, and that was perfectly fine.

 From the Archives: A Group of Daredevils and Princesses

 Yet, I am renewed. Renewed by the fact that this group of daredevils and princesses chose to spend time with us—their grandparents and parents. We created some memories, formed some new traditions, and made a plan for our summer get-together. It doesn’t get better than that.

 I am already looking forward to continuing our family adventures. Here are some pictures from our family to yours. Wishing you a happy, healthy New Year! A little late, maybe, but better late than never.

 In this holiday memoir, I mentioned a fridge filled with the remnants of an "over-the-top" feast. To recreate the centerpiece of our family gathering—a dish designed for sharing and legacy—explore our Master Blueprint for authentic Lasagna Bolognese.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 In this holiday memoir, I mentioned a fridge filled with the remnants of an "over-the-top" feast. To recreate the centerpiece of our family gathering—a dish designed for sharing and legacy—explore our Master Blueprint for authentic Lasagna Bolognese.

 View Lasagna Bolognese in The Vault