It’s that time. Time to gather your friends and family, and experience the very essence of togetherness, celebrating all of our blessings. A time to watch parades and football, and have that one day a year where you are encouraged to gorge yourself on all the traditional dishes you have waited all year to devour.

Hooray, hooray, it’s Thanksgiving Day! I want to share with you my master meal plan, complete with a timeline and schedule. Take from it what you wish, and substitute freely. I’m here to point you in the right direction. Just do yourself a favor, and make a plan. I guarantee that a plan will help you enjoy your Thanksgiving Day to the absolute fullest.

Two Weeks Ahead: The Blueprint

CHECKING IT TWICE!

List the dishes you plan to cook, those you’re going to pick up, and those that others are bringing to the party. Make a grocery list of all of the ingredients you need to prepare the dishes you are cooking. Sort your list by departments: dairy, produce, pantry staples, meats, and poultry. Take stock of your bar and include wine, mixers, and garnishes on your list.

After your grocery list is prepared, check your pantry to see which items you’ve already stocked and cross them off your list. Now, place any specialty orders you need to make. The turkey, of course (I like to order a fresh turkey), and bakery goods!

One Week Ahead: The Tablescape

THANKSGIVING PREP

Take stock of your china and flatware to make sure you have enough. Same goes for glassware and crystal. Don’t be afraid to mix and match china patterns. There’s creativity in designing a pretty table. Look for festive placemats, table runners, or a tablecloth. A simple throw blanket can double as a cloth on your table!

Don’t be afraid to experiment with those cute twinkle lights wrapped around pillar candles for some real tablescape sparkle. Create place cards, organize your centerpiece, and assemble décor for platters. I love to include food as part of my tablescape centerpiece. I place artichokes alongside pears and limes for a green experience. Add a few branches, pinecones, and a gourd or two.

Saturday: The Harvest

THE BIG REVEAL

Plan on a shopping day! If you are a farmer’s market shopper, get up early and visit the market you love. Purchase all of the fresh produce items that you need. Stop and smell the coffee beans. Remember, this is not a race—rather, it's time to enjoy your stroll. Slow down long enough to enjoy a festive cup ‘o Joe while you double check your list.

The Final 48 Hours

Tuesday: Make it a prep day! Chop and prep all the ingredients you will need. If you need onions for three dishes, chop a bunch. Same goes for apples for pie and potatoes for mashed potatoes. Trick of the trade: Submerge potatoes in cold water in the pot you will use to cook them in, and place them in your fridge. They will be fine until you’re ready to boil. Get your place cards set and set up the bar.

Wednesday: Focus on breads and desserts. Prepare your pies, your casseroles, and your sides. Prepare dough for artisan breads or rolls. Cover everything with plastic wrap, and store in the fridge until tomorrow.

Thursday Morning: It’s show time! Get that bird ready to roast. Organize your oven racks, and preheat so that you’re ready to bake off desserts, breads, and casseroles. While the turkey rests after cooking, use the drippings to make your gravy. Say a prayer of thanks... and enjoy the gathering to the absolute fullest!

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 Since Wednesday is architecturally dedicated to focusing on breads and doughs, explore the Master Blueprint for the perfect Skillet Focaccia to bake for your guests.

 View Skillet Focaccia & Dinner Rolls in The Vault