Tucked into the countryside of KeriKeri, deep in the Bay of Islands in New Zealand, is a local farmstead outfitted with herb and vegetable gardens and a true state-of-the-art kitchen. The transplanted Canadian owners of the homestead offer master cooking classes from local artisan Chef Grant Allen.

Allen’s philosophy on Kiwi cooking is that it’s intrinsically based on English, Scottish, and Irish traditions. “Our u2018culinary culture’ reflects our colonial history; as we travel, we become more aware of our Pacific and Asian neighbors, and their ingredients and cooking methods; like New Zealand’s indigenous people, the Maori,” said Chef Allen.

A BREATHTAKING LONG-DISTANCE VIEW OF THE NEW ZEALAND COUNTRYSIDE IN THE BAY OF ISLANDS FROM THE FARMSTEAD DINING TABLE

A Convergence of Cultures

Grant believes that Kiwi cuisine is rapidly evolving. It has its origins in the hearty food of their “European Grannies” and deep Maori cultures, while simultaneously absorbing the light, bright influences of Pacific and Asian cuisine. To demonstrate these complex tastes and flavors, Grant offered an expansive menu that included a multi-course luncheon.

CEVICHE IN CITRUS!

It started with the local delicacy of white fish bait fritters, a delicate crepe made up of whipped egg whites and whole, baby, salty white fish. He added Iki Mata, a ceviche of fresh snapper cooked in citrus, paired with finely diced veggies and earthy herbs.

From Land and Sea

FROM THE ARCHIVES: A WHOLE LEG OFLAMBFINALE

Another starter showcased beetroot chips stacked elegantly with crème fraiche and smoked salmon. Mussels, one of New Zealand’s most prized crops, were topped with coconut cream, ginger, and diced chili, then broiled and served warm to the table.

The main course featured a whole leg of lamb, simply prepared on an outdoor grill, served with an herb-fresh salsa verde alongside buttery, garlic hasselback potatoes. A secret ingredient to Grant’s accompanying salad was baby sweet tomatoes that had been heavily marinated in balsamic vinegar and honey, which later naturally turned into the salad's dressing!

Fresh and Simple

As cooking classes go, this one was not only incredibly informative, but absolutely unforgettable. The meal was totally indicative of the food we explored across New Zealand. I came away with two words that, for me, define the entire Pacific experienceu2026 fresh and simple.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 To bring the bright, coastal flavors of the Pacific—with a heavy emphasis on vibrant citrus and seafood like Chef Allen's ceviche—explore our Master Blueprint for fresh Cilantro Lime Shrimp.

 View Cilantro Lime Shrimp in The Vault