W
 
 e purchase our holiday turkey from New Town Farms in Waxhaw, North Carolina every year. This year, I was surprised to learn that Sammy, New Town’s Father Farmer, also raises a small herd of Ossabaw Island Hogs. These are descendants of the famous Spanish Iberico hogs, renowned for the most prized cured hams in the world—Jamón Ibérico.

JIM MUNDORF OF NUTHILL FARMS

 You may remember me writing about those hams after our trip to Spain. The butchers in the fresh markets there have contests to see who can cut the finest slices from the cured meat. It’s an art! These hogs were brought from Spain to a small island off the coast of Georgia in the 1500s. They remained there for years, developing characteristics for survival which make the meat delicious and extremely high in Omega 3’s.

 Sammy is one of a handful of farmers who raise these hogs, and he butchers just a few every year. We will be the beneficiaries of this long history when we taste the pork I purchased for New Year’s Day. But the surprises didn't stop there.

 Farmer Jim's Smile

 My trip to the Mathews farmer’s market landed me right in front of the happiest farmer I ever met: Jim Mundorf of Nuthill Farms. He got me to taste his "Henpecked" mustard greens, which were delicate and tender with an after-blast of mustard that ups the flavor profile in any salad—and especially on a leftover ham sammie!

VIBRANT FRESH MARKET OFFERINGS AND THE SPIRIT OF THE SEASON

 He also sold me some Tokyo Cross turnips. While you can slice them raw, Jim suggested I cook the tops with vinegar and roast the turnips to go with. (Yes, Jim, I will!) Explore
 
 New Town's Store
 
 to see their incredible local offerings.

 Fresh from the Soil

Pork is a New Year’s tradition in our house. This was my Dad’s favorite thing to eat! My favorite way to enjoy the dish is to slow-cook the meat—chops, ribs, or shoulder—in the slow cooker with plenty of sauerkraut. It’s a method that honors the ingredients and the memories they carry.

 Wishing you the happiest and healthiest of New Years! May your table be filled with local surprises and the joy of a slow-cooked meal.

 From the Memoir to the Kitchen

 To bring this memory to your own table, explore the Master Blueprint for our culinary recommendation below.

 View Corned Beef Blueprint in The Vault